---
layout: post
title: "Salvaging wrong solutions"
head_title: "Wrong solutions"
---

Recently, I seem to have developed a tendency to come up with blatantly wrong solutions whenever the
problem involves trees. Here are two examples.

## [Codeforces Round #601 Problem D][D]{:target="_blank"}

This problem boils down to supporting $$q$$ queries on a tree $$T$$, where the queries are one
of the following:

1. Given a vertex $$u$$, consider each connected component $$S$$ in $$T \setminus \{u\}$$, and
	 update the value of each vertex in $$S$$ with $$\frac{|T \setminus S|}{|T|}$$.
2. Output the value of a given vertex.

We need to handle these queries fast, because $$n=|T|$$ goes up to $$10^5$$ and there are a lot of
queries. I know how to update subtrees and query single vertices in $$O(\log(n))$$ each (using a
segment tree on the dfs traversal), and removing a vertex only creates two connected components
which are subtrees, so I thought this problem was pretty easy. I coded the segment tree, and for
each query of type 1 with vertex $$u$$, updated the subtrees rooted at the children of $$u$$. Now
this runs in $$O(n\log(n))$$ per query, for a total time complexity of $$O(qn\log(n))$$ instead of
$$O(q\log(n))$$ which I had initially calculated. Of course, removing a vertex $$u$$ from a tree
creates $$\deg(u)$$ connected components, not two. Good job.

Now, I tried to fix the solution because it seems to be almost correct. First, observe that if we
update a vertex with few children, then we can just update each child in $$O(c\log(n)$$, where $$c$$
is the number of children. Second, observe that there can't be too many vertices with many children
because the sum of the degrees of the vertices needs to be $$2n-2$$. Staring at this for a while
gives the following solution:

1. If the update vertex $$u$$ has less than $$c$$ children, update each child. Otherwise, call the
	 vertex $$u$$ "large", and keep track of the number of updates at $$u$$. This is $$O(c\log(n))$$
	 total.
2. Query the value at the given vertex, and update the answer using the updates at the "large"
	 vertices. This is $$O(\log(n)+n/c)$$ total.

To see which value of $$c$$ we should choose, we set $$c\log(n) = n/c$$ to get
$$c=\sqrt{n/\log(n)}$$. This gives a total complexity of $$O(q\sqrt{n\log(n)})$$.

## [Educational Codeforces Round 77 Problem F][F]{:target="_blank"}

The editorial solution for this problem is rather nice and uses heavy-light decomposition. Of
course, I first came up with a wrong solution, and what I eventually passed was probably not an
intended solution.

I first wrote down the correct equation that would solve the problem. Calculating it within the time
limit turned out to be an adventure. Let $$T=(V,E)$$ be the tree, let $$A_e$$ and $$B_e$$ be the two
connected components of after removing the edge $$e$$ from the tree, and let $$C$$ denote the
colours. Then, the answer should be

$$ \sum_{e\in E} \sum_{x\in C} \left(\prod_{u\in V}(r_u-l_u+1)\right)
\left(\sum_{u\in A_e}\frac{1}{r_u-l_u+1}\right) \left(\sum_{u\in B_e}\frac{1}{r_u-l_u+1}\right) . $$

What is this sum doing? First, we fix an edge and a colour. Then 

[D]: https://codeforces.com/contest/1254/problem/D
[F]: https://codeforces.com/contest/1260/problem/F
