---
layout: post
title: "How ACPC 2019 went down in flames"
head_title: "ACPC"
---

The [Alberta Collegiate Programming Contest (ACPC)][acpc]{:target="_blank"} was today, held on what
seemed to be the Calgary local judge (which is actually where the old folks from UBC copied our
local judge). We had 5 hours to solve 8 problems, but I knew the problems were going to be easy so I
was expecting to solve everything in under 90 minutes. However it took over 3 hours. Let's see why
that happened.

In the first hour, I submitted to 6 different problems (problems B to G). That's pretty good if I
want to be done in 90 minutes, at least it was good until I looked at the verdicts: 4 wrong answers
(B, C, F, G), 1 runtime error (E), and only 1 accepted (D). Now, this was rather unsettling,
especially when problems C, E, and G were problems that I should be able to code in my sleep. I
started wondering what could have possibly gone wrong, because this contest started to feel like a
replay of a [particularly bad tryout][tryout2018]{:target="_blank"} I did on the UBC local judge
(where I was in the wrong time zone and had a fever). Also, the fact that I got a runtime error (E)
on a problem where it was impossible for my code to encounter a runtime error was rather peculiar.

After a few minutes of swearing at my code, I found a bug for one of the wrong answers (F), except
the bug that I found should have caused a runtime error due to a division by zero instead of a wrong
answer. After confirming that my codes for the other problems were most likely correct, I was
convinced that the judge was _almost surely_ broken, so I just fixed the division by zero bug and
resubmitted. This time, my code bypassed the judge's bugs and got accepted. I learned afterwards
that the judge was indeed broken, and my first solution would have passed too because the judge
didn't have the edge case that failed my code. ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯

In the second hour, I complained that the judge wasn't working, took a break to code and solve H
(the judge somehow worked for H), and complained some more. Near the end of the second hour, the
judge was fixed, at least some bug in the judge was fixed, whereupon I submitted the B, C, E, and G.
Then, I solved A and went to get lunch\.\.\. is what I want to say. Unfortunately, I exceeded the
time limit on B, got wrong answer on C and G, but I at least passed E. Luckily, problem B was easily
fixed by substituting c++'s built-in `complex<T>` with a custom complex class for less overhead.

In the third hour, I complained that the judge solution was wrong for C and G, took a break to solve
A (fortunately the judge worked for A), and complained some more. I eventually figured that the
input for G was wrong, and after some more complaints, the incorrect inputs were removed just before
the 3 hour mark.

In the last two hours, I complained that the judge solution for C was wrong, took a break to have
lunch (no bugs were found in my lunch), and complained some more. Unfortunately, this time my
complaints did not work and problem C was never fixed. I guess it could also be that all the
contestants who tried problem C had wrong solutions, but I doubt this is the case, especially when C
was a combinatorics problem and I had recently spent a whole term studying combinatorics.

I guess the moral of the story is not to trust the judge when it looks like the sketchy UBC local
judge. In past years, ACPC was a nice contest hosted on [Kattis][kattis]{:target="_blank"}.
Something must have went wrong this year.

[acpc]: http://cpc.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/contests/acpc/
[kattis]: https://open.kattis.com/
[tryout2018]: https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~acm-web/tryouts-2018/scores.php
