---
layout: post
title: "A long break"
head_title: "A long break"
---

I've taken what seems to be like a long break --- a long break from competitive programming, from
doing math, and from pretending to write a blog. Over the past year, I've worked on research,
learned biology (plants are rooted by roots), and finished my undergrad --- all while putting
competitive programming on the back-burner. At some point, I ought to get back to practicing ---
especially now that the ICPC **2020** world finals are in sight.

I must have gathered a ludicrous amount of rust at this point. Indeed, I didn't even qualify for
~~round 3~~ the Google Code Jam T-shirt this year, while I've qualified with relative ease the past
three years. Integer overflows and array out of bounds have become increasingly frequent in my code.
However, not all hope is lost. Surprisingly, I ranked 19th on a [Codeforces
round][cf1]{:target="_blank"} that was a mere week before round 2 of Google Code Jam (the round
where I failed miserably). Perhaps even more surprisingly, I lost 6 rating points while being ranked
53rd on my last [Codeforces round][cf2]{:target="_blank"} --- 53rd had been enough for some
significant rating gains a few contests ago. This discrepancy in results confuses me. Since I'm
supposed to be rusty, I guess I just have to get ready to lose some rating when I inevitably rank
worse than top 50...

PS: It is very exciting that a third person from UBC has recently become red on Codeforces!

[cf1]: https://codeforces.com/contest/1515/standings/participant/113357963#p113357963
[cf2]: https://codeforces.com/contest/1540/standings/participant/116064368#p116064368
